# STG-Transformer for Minecraft Tasks

Plan4MC is a multi-task agent in Minecraft, solving long-term tasks via planning over basic skills. It  acquire three types of fine-grained basic skills through reinforcement learning without demonstrations. With a skill graph pre-generated by the Large Language Model, the skill search algorithm generates skill plans and interactively selects policies to solve complicated tasks. Plan4MC accomplishes 24 diverse hard tasks in Minecraft.

## Overview

The completed tasks to run STG model for MineCraft tasks are as below.

## Task id for each task

Milk a cow: `harvest_milk_with_empty_bucket_and_cow`

Gather wool: `harvest_wool_with_shears_and_sheep`

Harvest tallgrass: `harvest_1_tallgrass`

Pick a flower: `harvest_1_double_plant`

Note that for 'Harvest tallgrass' task, you need to modify the source code of minedojo. 

Open file  `minedojo/tasks/description_files/tasks_specs.yaml` and add following code:

```python
# ====== obtain tallgrass ====
harvest_1_tallgrass:
  __cls__: "harvest"
  prompt: "obtain a tallgrass in the plains"
  target_names: "tallgrass"
  target_quantities: 1
  reward_weights: 1
  use_voxel: true
  voxel_size: { xmin: -1, ymin: -1, zmin: -1, xmax: 1 ymax: 1, zmax: 1 }
  use_lidar: false
  initial_inventory:
    mainhand:
      name: "shears"
```

Open file `minedojo/tasks/description_files/programmatic_tasks.yaml` and add following code: 
```python
harvest_1_tallgrass:
  category: harvest
  guidance: 
   '1. Find a tallgrass block.
    1. Mine the tallgrass block.
    2. Collect the dropped item.'
  prompt: obtain tallgrass
```


## Step 0: Set up the MineDojo environment

- We recommend you to use anaconda to create a virtual env with python >= 3.9:
  
  ```
  conda create -n mc-env python=3.9
  ```
  
- Install MineDojo following the [official doc](https://docs.minedojo.org/sections/getting_started/install.html#prerequisites). 
  
- Upgrade the MineDojo package to our modified version

    - Uninstall the previous version
        ```
        pip uninstall minedojo
        ```
    - Clone the modified repo
        ```
        git clone https://github.com/PKU-RL/MCEnv.git
        ```
    - Run the setup file
        ```
        cd MCEnv && python setup.py install 
        ```
  - Verify the installation 
      ```
      MINEDOJO_HEADLESS=1 python validate_install.py
      ```
      You should see "[INFO] Installation Success" if your installation is successful.
      
      Note that we add `MINEDOJO_HEADLESS=1` as a prefix to avoid Malmo error. This can happen when your system does not support visualization display. Otherwise, yuo can feel free to remove it.  
      
- Clone our STG-Transformer repo
  ```
  git clone https://github.com/zhoubohan0/STG-Transformer.git
  ```

- Install python packages in `STG-Transformer/minecraft/requirements.txt`. Note that we require PyTorch >= 1.8.1 and x-transformers==0.27.1.
  ```
  pip install -r requirements.txt 
  ```
  If the speed is too low, try this:
  ```
  pip install -r requirements.txt -i https://mirrors.huaweicloud.com/repository/pypi/simple
  ```


## Step 1: Collect expert trajectories

As we discussed in our paper, we utilized the learned policy in [Plan4MC](https://github.com/PKU-RL/Plan4MC) and [CLIP4MC](https://github.com/PKU-RL/CLIP4MC) to collect our expert datasets. Specifically, 

### Milk and Wool
- Download the [pretrained MineCLIP model](https://disk.pku.edu.cn:443/link/86843F120DF784DCC117624D2E90A569) named `attn.pth`.  Move this to the directory `minecraft/mineagent/official`.

- Enter into the the directory `STG-Transformer/minecraft`

  ```
  cd minecraft
  ```

- Run the following code to collect expert datasets for task 'milk a cow'. If you want to collect expert datasets for task 'gather wool', change the parameter `--task` to `harvest_wool_with_shears_and_sheep`

    ``` 
    python generate_expert_traj.py --task harvest_milk_with_empty_bucket_and_cow --test-episode 100
    ```
  If you encounter Malmo error, add `MINEDOJO_HEADLESS=1` at the head of this command.

  You can see the collected expert datasets under the newly created directory `minecraft/expert_traj`. '1' indicates the trajectory collected is successful while '0' indicates the trajectory is unsuccessful; 

 

### Tallgrass and Flower

For these two tasks, we trained a CLIP4MC policy from scratch and use the successful gifs saved during the training stage as our expert datasets. Please refer to [CLIP4MC](https://github.com/PKU-RL/CLIP4MC) for more details about how to train CLIP4MC policy.


## Step2: Train STG model



For each task, you should train a STG model using the expert datasets collected in Step 1. 

Run the following code:
```
python STGTrain/STG4MC.py --stg_name milk --src_dir expert_traj/harvest_milk_with_empty_bucket_and_cow --n_epoch 100
```

The `--src_dir` parameter indicates the directory where your expert datasets are saved.

After running this, you should see there is a newly created directory `stgmodel-exp`. A csv file `train.csv ` is saved to record the training loss. `*.pth` files are also saved to store the model weights.

To check whether the STG model has converged, you can visualize it via following code:

```
python plot/stg_plot.py --file stgmodel-exp/milk/trainss.csv
```
